README.md, before:

<!-- Copyright 2013-2020 Mark Callow -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

<img src="https://www.khronos.org/assets/images/api_logos/khronos.svg" width="300"/>

The Official Khronos KTX Software Repository
---

| GNU/Linux, iOS, macOS & wasm | Windows | Android, Mingw & Windows-arm64 | Documentation |
|------------------------------| :-----: | :----------------------------: | :-----------: |
| [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software) | [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rj9bg8g2jphg3rc0/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/msc-/ktx/branch/master) | [![KTX-Software CI](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/actions/workflows/main.yml) | [![Build status](https://codedocs.xyz/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software.svg)](https://codedocs.xyz/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/) |

This is the official home of the source code for the Khronos KTX library and tools.

KTX (Khronos Texture) is a lightweight container for textures for OpenGL<sup>®</sup>, Vulkan<sup>®</sup> and other GPU APIs. KTX files contain all the parameters needed for texture loading. A single file can contain anything from a simple base-level 2D texture through to a cubemap array texture with mipmaps. Contained textures can be in a Basis Universal format, in any of the block-compressed formats supported by OpenGL family and Vulkan APIs and extensions or in an uncompressed single-plane format. Basis Universal currently encompasses two formats that can be quickly transcoded to any GPU-supported format: LZ/ETC1S, which combines block-compression and supercompression, and UASTC, a block-compressed format. Formats other than LZ/ETC1S can be supercompressed with Zstd.

Download [KTX Software Releases](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/releases)
to get binary packages of the tools, library and development headers
described below. The [Releases](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/releases) 
page also has packages with the Javascript wrappers and .wasm binaries.

See the Doxygen generated [live documentation](https://github.khronos.org/KTX-Software/)
for API and tool usage information.

The software consists of: (links are to source folders in the KhronosGroup repo)

- *libktx* - a small library of functions for writing and reading KTX
files, and instantiating OpenGL®, OpenGL ES™️ and Vulkan® textures
from them. [`lib`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/lib)
- *libktx.{js,wasm}* - Web assembly version of libktx and
Javascript wrapper. [`interface/js_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/js_binding)
- *msc\_basis\_transcoder.{js,wasm}* - Web assembly transcoder and
Javascript wrapper for Basis Universal formats. For use with KTX parsers written in Javascript. [`interface/js_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/js_binding)
- *libktx.jar, libktx-jni* - Java wrapper and native interface library.
[`interface/java_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/java_binding)
- *ktx2check* - a tool for validating KTX Version 2 format files. [`tools/ktx2check`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktx2check)
- *ktx2ktx2* - a tool for converting a KTX Version 1 file to a KTX
Version 2 file. [`tools/ktx2ktx2`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktx2ktx2)
- *ktxinfo* - a tool to display information about a KTX file in
human readable form. [`tools/ktxinfo`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktxinfo)
- *ktxsc* - a tool to supercompress a KTX Version 2 file that
contains uncompressed images.[`tools/ktxsc`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktxsc)
- *toktx* - a tool to create KTX files from PNG, Netpbm or JPEG format images. It supports mipmap generation, encoding to
Basis Universal formats and Zstd supercompression.[`tools/toktx`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/toktx)

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) for information about licensing.

See [BUILDING](BUILDING.md) for information about building the code.

<!--
More information about KTX and links to tools that support it can be
found on the
[KTX page](http://www.khronos.org/opengles/sdk/tools/KTX/) of
the [OpenGL ES SDK](http://www.khronos.org/opengles/sdk) on
[khronos.org](http://www.khronos.org).
-->

If you need help with using the KTX library or KTX tools, please use GitHub
[Discussions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/discussions).
To report problems use GitHub [issues](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX/issues).

**IMPORTANT:** you **must** install the [Git LFS](https://github.com/github/git-lfs)
command line extension in order to fully checkout this repository after cloning. You
need at least version 1.1. If you did not have Git LFS installed at first checkout
then, after installing it, you **must** run

```bash
git lfs checkout
```

A few files have `$Date$` keywords. If you care about having the proper
dates shown or will be generating the documentation or preparing
distribution archives, you **must** follow the instructions below.

#### <a id="kwexpansion"></a>$Date$ keyword expansion

$Date$ keywords are expanded via smudge & clean filters. To install
the filters, issue the following commands in the root of your clone.

On Unix (Linux, Mac OS X, etc.) platforms and Windows using Git for
Windows' Git Bash or Cygwin's bash terminal:

```bash
./install-gitconfig.sh
rm TODO.md lib/mainpage.md pkgdoc/pages.md tools/toktx/toktx.cc
git checkout TODO.md lib/mainpage.md pkgdoc/pages.md tools/toktx/toktx.cc

```

On Windows with the Command Prompt (requires `git.exe` in a directory
on your %PATH%):

```cmd
install-gitconfig.bat
del TODO.md TODO.md lib\mainpage.md pkgdoc\pages.md tools\toktx\toktx.cc
git checkout TODO.md lib\mainpage.md pkgdoc\pages.md tools\toktx\toktx.cc
```

The first command adds an [include] of the repo's `.gitconfig` to the
local git config file `.git/config`, i.e. the one in your clone of the repo.
`.gitconfig` contains the config of the "keyworder" filter. The remaining
commands force a new checkout of the affected files to smudge them with the
date. These two are unnecessary if you plan to edit these files.

Commit message:

Add note about pending default branch name change.

README.md, after:

<!-- Copyright 2013-2020 Mark Callow -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

<img src="https://www.khronos.org/assets/images/api_logos/khronos.svg" width="300"/>

The Official Khronos KTX Software Repository
---

**NOTE: The default branch will be renamed from `master` to `main` on Feb 1st, 2023. If you have a clone you will probably want to rename your clone's 'master' branch, following the popup instructions that will be seen when browsing the github repository after the change, or just delete 'master' and pull the new 'main', if it's purely a tracker with no local content.**

| GNU/Linux, iOS, macOS & wasm | Windows | Android, Mingw & Windows-arm64 | Documentation |
|------------------------------| :-----: | :----------------------------: | :-----------: |
| [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software) | [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/rj9bg8g2jphg3rc0/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/msc-/ktx/branch/master) | [![KTX-Software CI](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/actions/workflows/main.yml) | [![Build status](https://codedocs.xyz/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software.svg)](https://codedocs.xyz/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/) |

This is the official home of the source code for the Khronos KTX library and tools.

KTX (Khronos Texture) is a lightweight container for textures for OpenGL<sup>®</sup>, Vulkan<sup>®</sup> and other GPU APIs. KTX files contain all the parameters needed for texture loading. A single file can contain anything from a simple base-level 2D texture through to a cubemap array texture with mipmaps. Contained textures can be in a Basis Universal format, in any of the block-compressed formats supported by OpenGL family and Vulkan APIs and extensions or in an uncompressed single-plane format. Basis Universal currently encompasses two formats that can be quickly transcoded to any GPU-supported format: LZ/ETC1S, which combines block-compression and supercompression, and UASTC, a block-compressed format. Formats other than LZ/ETC1S can be supercompressed with Zstd.

Download [KTX Software Releases](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/releases)
to get binary packages of the tools, library and development headers
described below. The [Releases](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/releases) 
page also has packages with the Javascript wrappers and .wasm binaries.

See the Doxygen generated [live documentation](https://github.khronos.org/KTX-Software/)
for API and tool usage information.

The software consists of: (links are to source folders in the KhronosGroup repo)

- *libktx* - a small library of functions for writing and reading KTX
files, and instantiating OpenGL®, OpenGL ES™️ and Vulkan® textures
from them. [`lib`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/lib)
- *libktx.{js,wasm}* - Web assembly version of libktx and
Javascript wrapper. [`interface/js_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/js_binding)
- *msc\_basis\_transcoder.{js,wasm}* - Web assembly transcoder and
Javascript wrapper for Basis Universal formats. For use with KTX parsers written in Javascript. [`interface/js_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/js_binding)
- *libktx.jar, libktx-jni* - Java wrapper and native interface library.
[`interface/java_binding`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/interface/java_binding)
- *ktx2check* - a tool for validating KTX Version 2 format files. [`tools/ktx2check`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktx2check)
- *ktx2ktx2* - a tool for converting a KTX Version 1 file to a KTX
Version 2 file. [`tools/ktx2ktx2`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktx2ktx2)
- *ktxinfo* - a tool to display information about a KTX file in
human readable form. [`tools/ktxinfo`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktxinfo)
- *ktxsc* - a tool to supercompress a KTX Version 2 file that
contains uncompressed images.[`tools/ktxsc`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/ktxsc)
- *toktx* - a tool to create KTX files from PNG, Netpbm or JPEG format images. It supports mipmap generation, encoding to
Basis Universal formats and Zstd supercompression.[`tools/toktx`](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/tree/master/tools/toktx)

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) for information about licensing.

See [BUILDING](BUILDING.md) for information about building the code.

<!--
More information about KTX and links to tools that support it can be
found on the
[KTX page](http://www.khronos.org/opengles/sdk/tools/KTX/) of
the [OpenGL ES SDK](http://www.khronos.org/opengles/sdk) on
[khronos.org](http://www.khronos.org).
-->

If you need help with using the KTX library or KTX tools, please use GitHub
[Discussions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX-Software/discussions).
To report problems use GitHub [issues](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/KTX/issues).

**IMPORTANT:** you **must** install the [Git LFS](https://github.com/github/git-lfs)
command line extension in order to fully checkout this repository after cloning. You
need at least version 1.1. If you did not have Git LFS installed at first checkout
then, after installing it, you **must** run

```bash
git lfs checkout
```

A few files have `$Date$` keywords. If you care about having the proper
dates shown or will be generating the documentation or preparing
distribution archives, you **must** follow the instructions below.

#### <a id="kwexpansion"></a>$Date$ keyword expansion

$Date$ keywords are expanded via smudge & clean filters. To install
the filters, issue the following commands in the root of your clone.

On Unix (Linux, Mac OS X, etc.) platforms and Windows using Git for
Windows' Git Bash or Cygwin's bash terminal:

```bash
./install-gitconfig.sh
rm TODO.md lib/mainpage.md pkgdoc/pages.md tools/toktx/toktx.cc
git checkout TODO.md lib/mainpage.md pkgdoc/pages.md tools/toktx/toktx.cc

```

On Windows with the Command Prompt (requires `git.exe` in a directory
on your %PATH%):

```cmd
install-gitconfig.bat
del TODO.md TODO.md lib\mainpage.md pkgdoc\pages.md tools\toktx\toktx.cc
git checkout TODO.md lib\mainpage.md pkgdoc\pages.md tools\toktx\toktx.cc
```

The first command adds an [include] of the repo's `.gitconfig` to the
local git config file `.git/config`, i.e. the one in your clone of the repo.
`.gitconfig` contains the config of the "keyworder" filter. The remaining
commands force a new checkout of the affected files to smudge them with the
date. These two are unnecessary if you plan to edit these files.
